Updates and deletes,
let's just do a normal old update now.
So I'm gonna say UPDATE ingredients.
Set image equal to WATERMELON.jpg or
we can go back to
I don't know,
we'll call it strawberry I guess.
.jpg WHERE title = watermelon.
You can see there it didn't update.
So now if I say select star FROM the.
In case is unclear, you can hit up, it'll
scroll backwards through the queries that
you've done before,
which is what I'm doing.
Okay, so I've done this update here.
You just say set whatever do you want and
then you give it a WHERE
clause to define which one.
If I didn't give it a WHERE clause, it
would update literally every single one,
right, might be what you're trying to do,
right?
You might want literally everything
to have a picture of a strawberry.
You have a weird recipe app in my opinion
at that point, but it's possible, right?
What if you wanna see what you're doing,
right?
And this actually works on
the inserts this works under deletes,
what if you want to see what the result
of your works are after you've done them?
So we can say UPDATE ingredients,
set image equal to watermelon.jpg,
where title equals watermelon and
then I'm going to say returning.
And you can just ask for
whatever you want back right?
In this case, I want back the title,
the image and
the id and the title, right?
So not only am I updating it right,
this is an update command, right?
It's not a select command.
By saying RETURNING, this is like,
hey, once you've done everything,
give me back everything that you updated.
I'm sure you can imagine this being
useful, like let's say you're updating
a user's profile, you wanna confirm to the
user that's like, hey, you set your new
picture and you told me that you now
live in Minneapolis instead of Seattle.
So, I'm going to update the, database and
ask for the new information back, so,
that I can send that
back down to the user.
To confirm to them, your stuff
actually changed, I promise, I did it.
So that's what the returning does.
Now this is kind of a burdensome
thing to say let's say,
I literally just wanna
get everything back.
That's what the star is for, so
I can actually just say RETURN star,
which just means everything, right?
Notice this one, it gave me back
everything in the order I asked for it,
title, image, id, type.
This one will give it back to you, I think
it's generally in the order we created it,
but I don't think you're guaranteed.
Let's do another insert really quick.
I wanna show you that you can delete
multiple things with one query.
We can even copy and
paste this one directly out of it
because there's nothing really new here.
Scroll down and copy.
This one here, that one.
So insert into ingredients title image,
not real one, delete.jpg, delete to this.
Actually, I think it's going to
error cuz I was not, which is fine.
Yep, okay, so we did look up what
this 0 is It's always going to be 0.
So in modern Postgres, which is I think
post nine, this will always return to 0.
It used to be like an identifier for
object ids, which they don't use anymore.
But there's enough stuff that
depends on that 0 being there or
that number being there, that they kind of
constricted by backwards compatibility for
that always to be there.
So, in other words, ignore it.
The second number is the only
one that you care about.
So now I have two titles or I have two
images where the image is delete.jpg.
And I want to delete both
of these with one query.
So I can say, DELETE FROM ingredients,
WHERE image equals delete.jpg?
For fun, let's just say I want
to RETURN all of them as well.
Again, this returning part is optional.
It's only if you wanna see
what was actually deleted.
So that I had id 100 and id 101,
title image type vegetable.
So again that default
vegetable is coming from our
constraint here from back/dingredients
So this one has a default
here of vegetable.
If you didn't delete and
recreate the table with me,
you probably didn't get this default.
In which case,
this first insert might've not worked.
In which case, you would have to go
back and add, not really, we have to
add another type here of vegetable,
or meat, or something like that.
But if you did at the default constraint,
then it would work.
So just to kinda show you
what that would like.
I'm gonna put, it doesn't matter
cuz we have no constraint on it for
it to be valid.
And then here you would have to put type,
okay?
Insert it again and
then again we can do the same
DELETE FROM RERUTNING star,
and you can see here.
Notice that we're inserting and
deleting here.
Here's 101, this is 102 and 103,
it did not reuse those old ids, right?
It's just continuing to increment.
So if you delete something that
unique identifier is gone forever.
I don't know about you but like I feel
like weird about deleting something and
it's like never going to come back.
I don't know if the style is
the right word for it, attached.
I don't know, I probably should
ask a therapist about that.
Like the object permanence of
unique identifiers in the universe.
I feel bad for
qubits that never going to exist again.
Just therapy with Brian now.
Anyway, so the Delete funds
are really similar to a updates.
We just don't have a set in there, right?
All you're doing is just you're
identifying deleting from.
You're giving us some WHERE clause to say,
like, delete these things so
you can kinda pick
the things that you delete.
And then you can return them if you're
interested in seeing what you deleted,
otherwise it'll just show you
the number of delete to right.